[MUSIC]
Welcome to Introduction to Docker.
After watching this video you will
be able to, define what Docker is,
describe the Docker process and
underlying technology, list the benefits
of Docker containers, and identify
the challenges of Docker containers.
Available since 2013,
the official Docker definition paraphrased
states that Docker is an open platform for
developing, shipping, and
running applications as containers.
Docker became popular with developers
because of its simple architecture,
massive scalability, and portability
on multiple platforms, environments,
and locations.
Docker isolates applications from
infrastructure, including the hardware,
the operating system, and
the container runtime.
Docker is written in the Go
programming language.
Docker uses Linux kernel's features
to deliver its functionality.
Docker also uses namespaces to provide an
isolated workspace called the container,
and Docker creates a set of namespaces for
every container, and
each aspect runs in a separate namespace
with access limited to that namespace.
Docker methodology has inspired
additional innovations,
including complementary tools such
as Docker CLI, Docker compose and
Prometheus, and
various plugins including storage plugins.
Orchestration technologies using
Docker swarm or Kubernetes, and
development methodologies using
microservices and serverless.
Docker offers the following benefits.
Docker's consistent and
isolated environments result in
stable application deployments.
Deployments occur in seconds.
Because Docker images are small and
reusable,
they significantly speed up the
development process, and Docker automation
capabilities help eliminate errors,
simplifying the maintenance cycle.
Docker supports Agile and
CI/CD DevOps practices.
Docker's easy versioning speeds up
testing, rollbacks, and redeployments.
Docker helps segment applications for
easy refresh, cleanup, and repair.
Developers collaborate to resolve issues
faster and scale containers when needed,
and Docker images are platform
independent, so they are highly portable.
Docker is not a good fit for
applications with these qualities,
require high performance or security,
are based on Monolith architecture,
use rich GUI features, or perform
standard desktop or limited functions.
In this video, you learned that,
Docker is an open platform for developing,
shipping, and
running applications as containers.
Docker speeds up the deployment
process across multiple environments.
Docker uses namespaces technology to
provide an isolated workspace called
the container.
Docker creates a set of namespaces for
every container, and
each aspect runs in a separate namespace
with access limited to that namespace.
Docker supports Agile and
CI/CD DevOps practices.
And lastly, Docker containers are not
a good fit for applications based on
monolithic architecture or applications
that require high performance security.
[MUSIC]